=head1 NAME

CmdlineGL - Interpreter for subset of OpenGL 1.4 API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  CmdlineGL [OPTIONS] <opengl_commands >user_events

  # Play some recorded 3D graphics
  bzcat graphics.txt.bz2 | CmdlineGL >/dev/null
  
  # Experiment from Bash
  source CmdlineGL.lib
  glClearColor '#00FF00'
  glClear GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT
  cglSwapBuffers

=head1 DESCRIPTION

CmdlineGL is an interpreter for parsing and executing OpenGL functions, which also simplifies
the OpenGL API in several ways to make it more user-friendly.  It comes with shell bindings for
bash, allowing for experiments right from the terminal (if you have a graphical desktop).
It only covers the functions a beginner would need, and doesn't aspire to anything newer than
the 1.4 API.  It also provides some basic access to the GLU, SDL_image, and FTGL libraries,
for the ability to make useful demos that the raw OpenGL API can't provide on its own.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head1 COMMANDS

All commands take arguments separated by whitespace, in much the same way as a shell would
break its arguments.  There is also a quoting mechanism that may be used for any type of
argument.  If the argument begins with C<'> or C<">, then whitespace (other than newlines) will
be included in the argument until the matching quote character.  Literal newline characters
always end the command.  Within the string, C<\n> will be converted to newline charachers, and
any other character preceeded by a backslash will be included as-is, allowing you to escape
the quote character and the backslash.

=head3 Integers

All integer arguments of commands may be given as decimal, hexidecimal or symbolic C<GL_>
constants.  If an integer argument does not begin with a number, CmdlineGL will look it up in
the table of symbolic codes, and if it is not found, the command will fail and not execute.

=head3 Floats

All floating point values may be specified as a normal decimal notation.  However, to make
things easier for Bash scripts, they may also contain a divisor, like "34/100".  To facilitate
fixed-point math on lots of arguments, CmdlineGL supports a feature of a "default divisor" that
will be applied to EVERY floating point argument of every command, unless the argument contains
a divisor already.  See C<cglPushDivisor> below.

=head3 Colors

Many OpenGL commands take a color argument, usually as 3 or 4 floating point numbers in the
range [0..1].  In each case, you may supply a single HTML-style hex code like '#RRGGBB' or
'#RRGGBBAA' in their place.  The floating point values ARE affected by any implied divisor
in effect (see above) but the HTML color codes are NOT.

=head2 Default Divisors

=cut